markdown/useful-links.md, before:

# Useful Links
Feel free to add your own links to the list! Just push your suggested additions.

## Educational Resources
These resources are very important as the curriculum modules chosen for development are from the current K-12 Alberta curriculum. Although Alberta is currently undergoing a curriculum review, the modules selected for development are core learning concepts (e.g. functions in math) that will apply to future curriculums. If you want more information about the curriculum module you are developing, please visit the links below.

[Alberta Curriculum for K-12](http://www.learnalberta.ca/ProgramsOfStudy.aspx?lang=en)

[Parent expectations, Alberta](http://www.learnalberta.ca/content/mychildslearning/index.html)

## Educational Resources for Children and Teachers
These resources were suggested to us by a group of K-12 teacher advisors. They contain information that is relevant to the development of Jupyter notebooks for the classroom.

[Curated collection of educational resources](https://nsdl.oercommons.org) sorted by grade and resource type.

[Jupyter for kids](https://github.com/mikkokotila/jupyter4kids)

[How To teach Python To kids](http://www.mechanicalgirl.com/post/pygotham-2016-young-coders-or-how-teach-python-kids/)

[Usborn book: Python for kids](https://usborne.com/browse-books/catalogue/product/1/11315/coding-for-beginners-using-python/)

[Interactive resources for teachers (grades 4-6)](http://www.2learn.ca/kids/)

[Book: Doing Math with Python”](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/doing-math-with/9781457189999/)

## Notebook Examples
### Jupyter in the Classroom
[Question about using Jupyter notebooks at school](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jupyter-education/5C3ECsKdlWc)

[Example notebook for grade 6 Math](https://github.com/misterhay/Grade6Math)

### Interesting Jupyter Notebooks with Classroom Relevance
[Gallery of interesting Jupyter notebooks](https://github.com/jupyter/jupyter/wiki/A-gallery-of-interesting-Jupyter-Notebooks)

[More interesting Jupyter notebooks](http://nb.bianp.net/sort/views/)

## Coding
[Textbooks and conversion](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23292242/converting-to-not-from-ipython-notebook-format)

[Useful blog on Jupyter notebooks](https://www.dataquest.io/blog/jupyter-notebook-tips-tricks-shortcuts/)

["A better way to code" by the creator of D3](https://medium.com/@mbostock/a-better-way-to-code-2b1d2876a3a0)

[Reference cells in markdown](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28080066/how-to-reference-a-ipython-notebook-cell-in-markdown)

[Javascript to Python communication](http://jakevdp.github.io/blog/2013/06/01/ipython-notebook-javascript-python-communication/)

[Lecture notes on Jupyter and Python](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/profjsb/python-bootcamp/tree/master/Lectures/) written in part by Fernando Perez, the creator of Jupyter.

[Jupyter modules](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1031659/ipython-modules)

### Learn Python

[Learn Python with Python Challenge](http://www.pythonchallenge.com/)

[Interactive Python tutorials](http://www.learnpython.org/en/)

[The Hitchhiker's Guide to Python](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/writing/style/)

[Python interactive widgets](http://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/Using%20Interact.html)

## Information Visualization

[Color brewer](http://colorbrewer2.org) to select your color schemes.

[Basics](https://eagereyes.org/section/basics) you should know.

[Further reading](https://eagereyes.org/section/techniques) on infovis techniques.

[Perceptual edge](http://www.perceptualedge.com/) is a treasure trove of infovis.

[A gallery](http://conceptviz.github.io/#/e30=) of concept visualizations.

## Databases
Please only list databases we are actively using or plan to use.

[Authorized learning resources database, Alberta](http://www.learnalberta.ca/alrdb.aspx#/)

[Alberta open data (school related)](https://open.alberta.ca/dataset?tags=Grade+10)

Commit message:

Add link to bc teachers resources

markdown/useful-links.md, after:

# Useful Links
Feel free to add your own links to the list! Just push your suggested additions.

## Educational Resources
These resources are very important as the curriculum modules chosen for development are from the current K-12 Alberta curriculum. Although Alberta is currently undergoing a curriculum review, the modules selected for development are core learning concepts (e.g. functions in math) that will apply to future curriculums. If you want more information about the curriculum module you are developing, please visit the links below.

[Alberta Curriculum for K-12](http://www.learnalberta.ca/ProgramsOfStudy.aspx?lang=en)

[Parent expectations, Alberta](http://www.learnalberta.ca/content/mychildslearning/index.html)

## Educational Resources for Children and Teachers
These resources were suggested to us by a group of K-12 teacher advisors. They contain information that is relevant to the development of Jupyter notebooks for the classroom.

[Curated collection of educational resources](https://nsdl.oercommons.org) sorted by grade and resource type.

[Collection of hundreds of lesson plans and learning activities for BC teachers](https://teachbcdb.bctf.ca) sorted by grade subject and resource type.

[Jupyter for kids](https://github.com/mikkokotila/jupyter4kids)

[How To teach Python To kids](http://www.mechanicalgirl.com/post/pygotham-2016-young-coders-or-how-teach-python-kids/)

[Usborn book: Python for kids](https://usborne.com/browse-books/catalogue/product/1/11315/coding-for-beginners-using-python/)

[Interactive resources for teachers (grades 4-6)](http://www.2learn.ca/kids/)

[Book: Doing Math with Python”](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/doing-math-with/9781457189999/)

## Notebook Examples
### Jupyter in the Classroom
[Question about using Jupyter notebooks at school](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jupyter-education/5C3ECsKdlWc)

[Example notebook for grade 6 Math](https://github.com/misterhay/Grade6Math)

### Interesting Jupyter Notebooks with Classroom Relevance
[Gallery of interesting Jupyter notebooks](https://github.com/jupyter/jupyter/wiki/A-gallery-of-interesting-Jupyter-Notebooks)

[More interesting Jupyter notebooks](http://nb.bianp.net/sort/views/)

## Coding
[Textbooks and conversion](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23292242/converting-to-not-from-ipython-notebook-format)

[Useful blog on Jupyter notebooks](https://www.dataquest.io/blog/jupyter-notebook-tips-tricks-shortcuts/)

["A better way to code" by the creator of D3](https://medium.com/@mbostock/a-better-way-to-code-2b1d2876a3a0)

[Reference cells in markdown](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28080066/how-to-reference-a-ipython-notebook-cell-in-markdown)

[Javascript to Python communication](http://jakevdp.github.io/blog/2013/06/01/ipython-notebook-javascript-python-communication/)

[Lecture notes on Jupyter and Python](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/profjsb/python-bootcamp/tree/master/Lectures/) written in part by Fernando Perez, the creator of Jupyter.

[Jupyter modules](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1031659/ipython-modules)

### Learn Python

[Learn Python with Python Challenge](http://www.pythonchallenge.com/)

[Interactive Python tutorials](http://www.learnpython.org/en/)

[The Hitchhiker's Guide to Python](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/writing/style/)

[Python interactive widgets](http://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/Using%20Interact.html)

## Information Visualization

[Color brewer](http://colorbrewer2.org) to select your color schemes.

[Basics](https://eagereyes.org/section/basics) you should know.

[Further reading](https://eagereyes.org/section/techniques) on infovis techniques.

[Perceptual edge](http://www.perceptualedge.com/) is a treasure trove of infovis.

[A gallery](http://conceptviz.github.io/#/e30=) of concept visualizations.

## Databases
Please only list databases we are actively using or plan to use.

[Authorized learning resources database, Alberta](http://www.learnalberta.ca/alrdb.aspx#/)

[Alberta open data (school related)](https://open.alberta.ca/dataset?tags=Grade+10)
